---
title: LuCaNT 2027 Call for Papers
layout: default
permalink: /submissions/
---

<p>The proceedings of the third conference on LMFDB, Computation, and Number Theory (LuCaNT 2027) will be published as an arXiv overlay. We encourage anyone with research related to mathematical databases or computation to submit a paper.</p>

<p>The field of mathematical databases has emerged as an important area of research at the intersection of computer science and mathematics.  It seeks to address questions that arise when organizing, storing, and providing access to mathematical knowledge in a structured manner.  These databases are intended to be easily searchable and navigable, providing researchers, educators, and students with a convenient way to access mathematical content.  There are many challenges in developing and maintaining mathematical database, ranging from data quality and integration, to standardization, search design, updating and maintenance, and usability.  In addition, many algorithmic and theoretical questions emerge naturally when considering systematic computations that must be done on a large scale.</p>

<p>Papers should be at most 25 pages, excluding references, when formatted using the amsart document class with default margins, font size (10pt), and line spacing. However, initial PDF submission may be in any format (e.g., 19 pages of amsart with 12pt font and fullpage is about the same length).  Papers that are 5 pages or less, excluding references, will be considered for a special section on "short communications" that provide concise reports on the above themes.  Examples might include: a brief presentation of a novel proof of a known result, an announcement of a significant computation with a few details, an outline of a new algorithm with a link to the implementation, or an elaboration upon some aspect of databasing.  Please note, however, that preliminary papers (to be published elsewhere in final form) or summaries of results previously published or soon to appear are not acceptable.</p>

<p>Papers will go through a peer review process. In addition, any developed code should be placed in a publicly available repository such as GitHub to be available to the reviewers (to help improve the quality, accessibility, re-usability, and reproducibility of the code and data).  Code will be reviewed using the <a href="https://www.mardi4nfdi.de/about/mission">MaRDI</a> process (you can find an example <a href="https://hanselmanj.eu/assets/mardi/MaRDI_Technical_Review_Mockup.pdf">here</a> and more information about the process <a href="https://hanselmanj.eu/mardi.html">here</a>).  The outcome of the code review will be included with the referee reports and inform the editorial board's decision to accept or reject the paper. Any computational tools used to obtain your research results and/or prepare your manuscript should be disclosed; this includes, but is not limited to, generative AI.</p>

<p>It is not required that an accepted paper be presented at the conference but from among the accepted papers a curated list of speakers will be invited to give talks at LuCaNT 2027, which will take place at <a href="https://conferences.cirm-math.fr/2027-calendar.html">CIRM</a> in Luminy, June 21-25, 2027.</p>

<p>The deadline for submissions is <b>January 15, 2027</b> by midnight AoE (UTC-12).  The submission link will be posted in December, 2026.</p>
